CHIP: Code Highlighting in PHP
==============================

Version 2.7.0
-------------

CHIP is a simple source code highlighter designed to be used on webservers.
It takes C, C++, Java, Lisp, Python, PHP, HTML, or JavaScript code, and
outputs an XHTML version of that code, with appropriate highlighting.

CHIP contains measures to protect against spambots: any email addresses in the
input file are obfuscated in the output, and then this obfuscation is
corrected by a JavaScript function.  This should stymie any searches for email
addresses as it is too expensive for spiders to execute JavaScript in their
search for addresses.  In order that the addresses are not found in the plain
version instead, the links to those files are obfuscated too.  This means that
spiders, both for respectable search engines and disreputable spammers, will
not be able to follow those links.

CHIP is open source, covered by the MIT Licence
<http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.html>.


Requirements
------------

PHP >= 4.1.0.


Installation
------------

Note that there is a prepackaged version of CHIP available for Debian.

CHIP may be run either in a webserver environment, or directly from the
command line.

To run from the command line, simply run "php chip.php"; a guide to the
command line parameters will be printed.  Here, "php" is the PHP CLI
executable, which may instead be called "php4" in your environment, or may not
even be installed at all.  For Debian, you want to install the php4-cgi
package.  For compliation of PHP from source, you want the --enable-cli
configuration option.

For installation in a webserver environment, place all the files on your
webserver and enable PHP in the normal way.  For Debian / Apache / PHP, you
want to install the php4 package and then the CHIP package and the Apache
configuration will be performed automatically.

You may need to change the extensions of the PHP files to match the
configuration of your webserver.  Call this script with the URL
http://yourserver/chip/chip.php?file=/path/to/my_file.ext in order to
highlight /path/to/my_file.ext.  That file must be accessible through your
webserver using that path.

You may optionally add a title parameter to specify the title to be applied to
the page.

You may optionally add parameters to indicate the titles and URLs for
breadcrumb parts.  The parameters should be named bcURL0 and bcTitle0, bcURL1
and bcTitle1, and so on.

You may optionally add a linenumbers=1 or linenumbers=0 parameter to enable or
disable line numbers, respectively.

You may optionally add a transitions=n parameter where n is the code
representing a particular page-entry transition.  n may be -1, disabling
the transition altogether.  (Page-entry transitions are IE-specific.)

The extension of the file is used to determine how it should be highlighted.
If the file to be highlighted is treated as executable by your webserver then
highlighting will fail, as the webserver will refuse to give you the source
code.  In this case, you must link to or rename that file so that it may be
highlighted.  My server treats files with the .php extension as executable PHP
code, but not .php4, so for files that I wish to have highlighted, I use the
latter extension instead.  You could use -php.txt instead, for example.


Customisation
-------------

The extension of the file is used to determine how it should be highlighted.
The behaviour in this respect is determined by $behaviourMap in chip.php.

The first section of chip.php contains things that you may wish to configure
($behaviourMap, various flags, and the appearance functions).  In the global
namespace you have $path, the path requested as the query parameter "file";
$filename, equal to basename($path); and $title, the title of the page as
given by the query parameter "title", or $filename by default.


Testing
-------

There are some regression tests that can be executed by running the script
<install directory>/tests/run-tests.sh.


Copyright Notice and Licence
----------------------------

Apart from the file rot13.js, every part of CHIP is covered by the following
notice and licence:

Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Ewan Mellor <chip@ewanmellor.org.uk>.  All rights
reserved.

This software is covered by the MIT Licence
<http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.html>:

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
  deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
  rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
  sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


rot13.js is in the public domain, and covered by the following notice:

Rot13 functions by Valentin Hilbig, who has placed them in the public domain.
<http://tools.geht.net/rot13.html>.

Improvements have been made by Ewan Mellor <rot13@ewanmellor.org.uk>, who has
also placed his code in the public domain.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
